Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
[Sirens]
HELEN/ Time for school!
HELEN/ Stop daydreaming.
You'll be late for school.
Sometimes l have dreams
MIA: Hey, Louie. Come on.
l picture myself flyin'
It's time to go to schooI.
Through the clouds
High in the sky
Conquering the world
With my magic piano
Never being scared
But then l realize
l'm Supergirl
And l'm here to save the world
But l wanna know
Who's gonna save me?
HELEN/ Are you
feeling confident?
MIA: Not reaIIy.
Now just remember,
when you make your speech...
don't Iook at the peopIe.
Pick a spot on the back waII...
don't take your eyes
off of it...
and speak IoudIy.
Thanks, Mom.
Bye, Mom.
Good Iuck.
Ooh ooh
Ooh
Morning, Buttons.
[Barking]
MAN/ Be nice, Buttons.
MIA: Whoa. Whoa!
Sorry, Mr. Robutusen.
Have a nice day.
ROBUTUSEN: I doubt it.
Whoo!
l'm Supergirl
[Sirens]
What l wanna know
Who's gonna save me?
CHEERLEADERS/
Hey, there, ho there
How do you do?
This is Grove Lions
sayin' hi to you.
-I'm Lana...
-Anna...
Fontana.
CHEERLEADERS/ Go Lions!
BOY: Josh!
l'm Supergirl
-Josh!
-What are you doing?
Oh, he's such a show-off.
Jeremiah, off the waII,
pIease.
Come on.
You know better than that.
MIA: Good morning, Miss Gupta.
Morning, LiIIy...
LiIIy's friend.
l'm Supergirl
Who's gonna save me?
You know,
as manager of the team...
I reaIIy think you shouId be
a part of the team.
Oh, oh! Oops.
I'm sorry,
I didn't see you.
I was thinking...
Somebody sat on me again.
-ReaIIy?
-Yeah.
MlA/
l don't know what happened.
l was just sitting there,
working on my speech...
It's reaIIy a dumb cIass--
LILL Y:
Jerk and jerkette sighting.
MIA: Hmm?
Soft kisses on a summer's day
Laughing all our cares away
And dream of--
-What?
You never saw two idiots
exchange saIiva before?
Oh. Yeah.
They're so rude.
Good. You know,
for a second there...
I thought you were
going A-crowd on me.
MlA/ Oh, heh. Negative.
LlLL Y/ Ready for debate?
MlA/
l'm never ready for debate.
[Cheering]
BO Y/ Go, Josh!
JOSH/ So this is not a debate.
This is a control issue.
Grove controIs our minds
with what they teach us...
but you know what?
They're not satisfied
with that.
I think Grove shouId
dump the uniforms...
and we have casuaI dress
aII year round!
[Cheering]
MR. O'CONNELL/
All right, all right.
OK, girIs, settIe down.
SettIe down.
This is a debate,
and after it's over...
I want you back
in your schooI uniform.
JOSH: Hey, boss,
whatever you say.
Josh, sit down.
-He's the man.
-He's my man.
O'CONNELL/
OK, Josh. Later, OK?
Down, down, boy.
You made your point.
OK, so,
now we've all heard...
from Josh Bryant
for the affirmative.
[VeIcro rips]
I Iove that sound.
What's my point again?
You Iike our uniforms.
They're equaIizers.
O'CONNELL/
Now we'll hear the rebuttal...
from Mia Thermopolis...
who will present
the negative argument...
against our proposition.
[Scattered appIause]
GlRL/ Come on, Mia!
BO Y/ Whoo-hoo!
Um...I th-think...um...
FONTANA/ What a frizz-ball.
ANNA/ Look at her hair.
O'CONNELL/ Shh!
Um...
BO Y/ We're waiting.
SECOND BO Y/ Say something!
You see, um...I...
See, casuaI--
casuaI...uh...
[Breathing heaviIy]
GlRL/ Are you OK?
ANNA: She's gonna barf.
SECOND GlRL/
Oh, God! She's gonna hurl!
THlRD GlRL/ Cover the tuba!
O'CONNELL/ OK, OK.
Everybody settle down.
Learn how to fly
Gotta move on
From what's
breaking your heart...
MANAGER/ Mia!
Finish up with Mrs. Taubman...
and then you can take a break.
Another huge tip
from Mrs. Hersh.
I got one from Mrs. Taubman.
We're doing aII right today.
Mr. WaIsh's ropes are twisted.
VlVlAN/
Mr. Walsh, stop twisting!
You'll strangle yourself!
Hi, Mom.
You threw up, huh?
And you ran away.
MlA/
l'm trying to forget about it.
Can I have some shoes
and chaIk, pIease?
Anyway, I'II go taIk
to your debate teacher--
-What's his name?
-Mr. O'ConneII.
And straighten it aII out.
Mom, I am never going to be
a good pubIic speaker.
Just caII him and teII him
I want to be a mime.
-I can do that.
-Here you go.
Oh, your grandmother caIIed.
What?
The Iive one.
Who Iives in Genovia.
CIarisse.
Oh. Wow.
This is the first time
she's ever contacted us.
What'd she want?
She's in town.
She wants to have tea.
Tea? She came aII the way
from Europe to have tea?
[TeIephone rings]
I think I'm gonna cIimb
a IittIe bit.
MANAGER/
Rocks Around the Clock
MIA: Isn't this the grandmother
who made you get a divorce?
WeII, she didn't
approve of me...
but PhiIIipe and I
made the decision...
to divorce on our own.
Why shouId I go see
this snobby Iady who ignores us?
Mia, she's your father's mother.
Just go see her tomorrow.
-PIease?
-Tension.
She said
your father hoped...
that you two wouId meet someday.
[Sighs] AII right, I'II go.
[PIaying rock and roII music]
BO Y/ Whoo!
AII right, I win.
Band practice is over.
l have a music class here. Out!
Let's have the third group
try ''Catch a FaIIing.''
CharIes, you want to be
in the front?
-Thanks.
-No probIem.
MichaeI.
Are you sure
you can't heIp me...
with my Spotted OwI
petition today?
I'm meeting my grandmother
after schooI.
[Piano pIaying]
Oh, right.
Catch a falling star
And put it in your pocket
Never let it fade away
Catch a falling star
And put it in your pocket
Save it for a rainy day
For love may come and
Tap you on the shoulder
Some starless night
SPEAKER/ School tours
are on Saturday, young lady.
I'm here for a meeting
with my grandmother.
Name?
CIarisse RenaIdi.
Oh. PIease come
to the front door.
Thank you very much.
SPEAKER/ Get off the grass!
[Message repeated
in other Ianguages]
WeIcome, Miss ThermopoIis.
We've been expecting you.
MIA: Oh, be carefuI.
PIease don't crush
my soy nuts.
Your soy nuts are safe.
OK.
Right this way.
PIease,
make yourseIf comfortabIe.
WOMAN/ ...for their
daughter Marissa.
She's allergic to peanuts.
And we need new piIIows
for the prime minister's wife.
She's aIIergic
to goose feathers.
Hello, Amelia.
I'm CharIotte, from
the Genovian attache corps.
Hi. It's nice to meet you.
Um, where am l?
CHARLO TTE/
The Genovian Consulate.
MIA: You've got pears
in your fIowers.
Genovian pears.
We're famous for them.
Now, if you'II sit down...
she'II be with you
in a moment.
No, I don't need a moment.
I'm here.
AmeIia,
I'm so gIad you couId come.
MlA/ Hi.
You've got a great place.
Thank you.
WeII, Iet me Iook at you.
You Iook so...young.
Thank you.
And you Iook so...
cIean.
CharIotte, wouId you check
on tea in the garden?
Please, sit.
So, my mom said you wanted...
to taIk to me
about something. Shoot.
Oh, before I ''shoot''...
I have something
I want to give you.
Here.
Oh, um, thank you.
Wow.
CLARlSSE/
lt's the Genovian crest.
It was mine when I was young.
And that was
my great-grandmother's.
Heh. I'II keep this safe.
I wiII take good care of it.
Now, what did you
want to teII me?
CLARlSSE/ Something
that l think will have...
a very big impact
upon your Iife.
I aIready had braces.
No, it's bigger
than orthodontia.
The tea is served, ma'am.
AmeIia, have you ever heard...
of Eduard Christoff
PhiIIipe Gerard RenaIdi?
No.
He was the crown prince
of Genovia.
Hmm.
What about him?
Eduard Christoff
PhiIIipe Gerard RenaIdi...
was your father.
[Snorts] Yeah, sure.
My father was
the prince of Genovia.
Uh-huh. You're joking.
Why wouId I joke about
something Iike that?
No! Because if he's reaIIy
a prince, then I--
ExactIy.
You're not just
AmeIia ThermopoIis.
You are AmeIia Mignonette
ThermopoIis RenaIdi...
Princess of Genovia.
Me? A princess?
Shut up!
I beg your pardon?
Shut up?
Your Majesty, in America...
it doesn't aIways mean
''Be quiet.''
Here it couId mean,
''Wow,'' ''Gee whiz,'' ''GoIIy''--
Oh, I understand.
Thank you.
NevertheIess,
you are the princess.
And I am
Queen CIarisse RenaIdi.
Why wouId you pick me
to be your princess?
Since your father died,
you are the naturaI heir...
to the throne of Genovia.
That's our Iaw.
I'm royaI by marriage.
You are royaI by bIood.
You can ruIe.
RuIe? Oh, no.
Oh, no. No, no, no.
Now you have
reaIIy got the wrong girI.
I never Iead anybody--
not at Brownies,
not at Camp Fire GirIs--
Queen CIarisse,
my expectation in Iife...
is to be invisibIe,
and I'm good at it.
AmeIia, I had
other expectations aIso.
In my wiIdest dreams...
I never expected this
to happen.
But you are the IegaI heir--
the onIy heir--
to the Genovian throne...
and we will
accept the challenge...
of heIping you become
the princess that you are.
Oh, I can give you books.
You wiII study Ianguages,
history, art, poIiticaI science.
I can teach you
to waIk, taIk, sit, stand...
eat, dress Iike a princess.
And, given time,
I think you'II find...
the paIace in Genovia
a very pIeasant pIace to Iive.
-Live in Genovia?
-It's a wonderfuI country.
Whoa, whoa. Just--
Rewind and freeze.
l'm no princess.
I'm stiII waiting
for normaI body parts to arrive.
I refuse to move to
and ruIe a country...
and--Do you want
another reason?
I don't want to be a princess!
Oh, AmeIia...AmeIia!
Amelia, come back here!
CLARlSSE/ Ohh!
[Sighs]
WeII, that went weII,
didn't it?
-Perhaps she needs more time.
-WiII you heIp me?
Miss ThermopoIis?
I'm the head of your security...
and you want me to be
a chauffeur and baby-sitter.
For the time being.
The chiId needs protection.
MlA/ For 15 years...
you couldn't
find a spare minute...
to teII me that
my father is a royaI?
I thought I was doing
the right thing.
The right thing for who, Mom?
For aII of us.
l mean,
if we secretly divorced...
he would be able
to find a woman...
who wouId stay by his side
and produce heirs...
and I wouId be free
to Iive my Iife with you.
I mean, pIease!
We met in coIIege!
I was young!
I wanted to paint.
Can you see me waIking
one step behind someone...
for the rest of my Iife?
With ruIes and reguIations...
and the waving and the bowing
and the scraping?
I was scared!
MIA:
Living with a mother...
who Iied to me
for 15 years scares me.
Where are you going?
To straighten up
the royaI bedchamber.
HELEN/ After the divorce,
we all discussed it.
Your father
and your grandmother...
both agreed
to keep that distance...
so you would have a chance
of a normal childhood...
free of
emotionaI compIications.
We were going to teII you
when you were 18 years oId...
but when your father died,
things changed, Mia.
We wanted to protect you.
You know what?
I don't feeI protected.
You try Iiving for 15 years...
thinking that
you're one person...
and then in five minutes
you find out...
that you're a princess.
Just in case...
I'm not enough
of a freak aIready...
Iet's add a tiara!
[Sighs]
WeII, drink your soup.
I'm not reaIIy hungry.
Fine.
Good night, sweetheart.
Fat Louie...
[Purring]
You are so Iucky...
you don't know
who your parents are.
[Meow]
I've never ridden in a Iimo...
he admitted bitterIy
to himseIf...
as he crossed
to the open window...
and Iooked out at the bay,
the fog Iooming...
Iike his pathetic Iife
before him.
I can't beIieve I won an Emmy.
I have this favorite photo
of PhiIIipe.
We had so much fun
when we were in college.
He was so full
of joie de vivre...
always laughing and smiling.
CLARISSE: I remember.
HeIen, if AmeIia refuses
to accept the throne...
then Genovia wiII cease
to exist as we know it.
So the future
of your country...
is in the hands
of my 15-year-oId?
Here it is.
Oh.
CLARlSSE/
Phillipe was ready to be king.
Then the terribIe accident.
Even though it didn't
work out between us...
I Ioved your son very much.
Thank you.
WeII, as aIways...
this is as good as
it's gonna get.
Hmm.
I can't wait untiI she's 18.
[Mia sighs]
Oh, this is a nightmare.
I'm going back to bed.
Mia, the three of us
have to taIk.
Oh, OK.
Is there something eIse...
about me and my Iife
I might want to know about?
Are you two waiting
to take me on a taIk show...
to teII me I have a twin sister
who's a duchess?
You have a cousin
who's a contessa.
Fondly known as Bartholomew.
Actually,
we call him Pookie.
Yesterday did not go weII.
WiII you just Iisten
to your grandmother?
AmeIia,
in a matter of weeks...
we have an annuaI baII.
I was--I am hoping
that I may present you...
to the press and the pubIic
on that occasion.
However, you desperately
need some instruction.
I speak for the entire
Genovian parIiament...
and the royaI famiIy.
And I speak for this famiIy.
Excuse me...
I don't have a famiIy
with either one of you...
because you ignored me
for 15 years...
and you Iied to me.
FamiIies don't do stuff
Iike that, OK?
[Footsteps going upstairs]
Where is she going?
The tower.
Mia, you can't run
from everything!
She has a tower?
HELEN/ Please?
Just come down from there.
MIA:
Most kids hope for a car...
for their 16th birthday,
not a country!
Just make yourseIf comfortabIe.
[Fat Louie hisses]
HELEN/
This is getting us nowhere!
Talk to me.
I can't taIk to you right now.
I'm Iate for a meeting
with my guidance counseIor.
with Spain and PortugaI.
HELEN/ l have a thought.
Mia promises to attend
princess Iessons...
untiI your baII.
WeII, it's not my baII.
It's Genovia's annuaI
Independence Day baII.
I'm sorry.
Mia promises neither
to accept nor reject...
your offer to be royaI
untiI this grand baII...
and then
she makes her decision.
Now, can you
both live with that?
It seems I have no option.
[Sighs] If I have to.
But I want not one word of this
untiI that evening.
Is that understood?
Duh.
CLARlSSE/ The press
would have a field day.
WeII. Let's not keep
Spain and PortugaI waiting.
[Car horn honks]
I'II be 16 this year...
and my mom traded two paintings
for a 1966 Mustang.
You do know what
a Mustang is, right?
I raise mustangs.
That is not a sensibIe car
for a princess.
It isn't sensibIe for anyone.
It doesn't run.
I suppose I couId donate
something to this vehicIe.
MlA/
Good morning, Mr. Robutusen.
CLARlSSE/
Who is this gentleman?
MlA/
Oh, he's my neighbor...
but you wouIdn't
want to meet him.
He doesn't have
very nice manners.
Good morning.
There's someone
I want you to meet.
OK. Whoa.
You have two Iimousines?
One is yours.
You raise Iimousines, too?
No. AmeIia, this is Joseph.
Hi. Nice to meet you.
The eIegant European woman
didn't stay for tea...
Thanks.
But the promise of tomorrow
hung in the air.
[Car door shuts]
MIA: Ooh!
Uh, Princess?
Princess, may I point out...
that no matter
how many times you push it...
it wiII go up and down
the same way.
MlA/ Joseph, can we
eighty-six the flags? Please?
No.
The fIags aIIow me
to park anywhere.
We keep the fIags.
Sorry, Joseph.
You can caII me Joe.
Joey?
Heh heh heh heh.
No. Joe.
Did I miss something?
Are we going to a wedding?
Uh, no. SchooI.
No, this is the surprise ride.
[Speaking foreign Ianguage]
MlA/ This is Joe.
Joe, LiIIy. LiIIy, Joe.
LILL Y:
Hi, it's nice to meet you.
You know you Iook Iike Shaft?
Yes. Excuse me.
-You want a ride, right?
-Yeah, totaIIy.
Hey, I got it.
Of course.
-OK.
-Oh, my word!
JOE/ Please fasten
your seat belts, ladies.
LlLL Y/ ls your mother
dating an undertaker?
Uh, no.
This Iong-Iost grandmother
showed up...
and she wants me to use it.
-And?
-I--I don't know.
I guess she's just
trying to be nice...
to get me to like her.
LlLL Y/ Oh.
MlA/ Hey, Joe?
Can you please park
a block away from school?
I don't want to cause a riot
with this hearse.
This is a non-riot hearse.
And if it were a hearse...
there wouId be siIence
in the back seat.
[GirIs Iaughing]
CHEERLEADERS/
Hey there, ho there
How do you do?
This is Grove Lions
sayin' hi to you.
Go Lions! Rowr!
P.A./ This is a reminder.
Virtual homework
may not be submitted...
for actual credit.
FONTANA: TeII me, Mia.
Is it true
about your speech?
Are you reaIIy speaking
at the BuIimic Convention?
So you can speak and barf
at the same time?
[Vomiting sounds]
MS. HARBULA/ Good.
Good glove, Michael.
Way to go.
I'II Iet this one go, Mia.
Try catching.
Are you sure?
It's sIow-pitch.
Don't worry about it.
MIA: Oh.
Now get it and throw it
back to the pitcher.
-OK.
-Come on.
[Crowd gasps]
-I am so sorry.
-Mm.
-I'm reaIIy--
-I didn't mean to--
-Mm.
-Can I heIp you?
-Ice. Get me ice.
[TroIIey beII dings]
LILL Y: I'm on the verge
of becoming a nutcase...
and my parents think
I need an attitude adjustment.
MIA: Whoa, whoa, whoa!
LILL Y: Sorry.
Yeah, so my dad wants...
to take me to dinner tonight,
just the two of us.
We ran out of things
to taIk about when I was 8.
MIA: At Ieast
your dad's stiII aIive.
LILL Y: Hey.
I thought
you'd gotten over that.
It's been two months.
MIA: I know, I know.
But, after aII, he was my dad.
BioIogicaIIy, yes,
but you never met the man.
Just a nice card and gift
on your birthday for 15 years?
Be fair.
They were beautifuI presents.
Remember that Faberge
merry-go-round he sent me?
That was nice.
And he paid
for my schooI tuition.
-I guess so.
-LiIIy, I gotta run.
I gotta see your brother
about my baby.
LILL Y: OK, but Iet's
take the Iimo tomorrow.
These hiIIs are kiIIing me.
MIA: You got it.
[Rock music pIaying]
[TeIephone rings]
[Rings]
He fixes cars,
he pIays guitar...
and he can sing.
-He is so hot!
-He is wicked sweet.
DOC: HeIIo. TaIk Ioud,
I got a band rehearsing.
MlCHAEL/ You've been listening
to the sounds of Flypaper.
We're flying away now.
DOC/ All right, stop yelling.
They're finished.
Hey, that's--
It's sounding reaIIy good.
You know,
Ned is really wailing.
HeIIo, Mia.
Hey, Doc.
So, what's the diagnosis
for my baby?
Four hundred doIIars.
[Horn honks]
DOC: Yeah, I know.
It costs to be cooI, huh?
MIA: This is not my day.
I'II do some Iabor free.
MlA/ Thanks, but l'll talk
to my grandma about it.
It'II be great.
I'II see you guys Iater.
I gotta be somewhere.
Ooh.
''I'II do some Iabor free.''
Heh. You sweet on her?
She's my sister's best friend!
Yeah, that's
the hardest pIace to be.
Between friend
and friendIier, huh?
[Laughs]
l'm tryin' to find a way
l'm tryin' to find a ride...
Your Majesty, the dipIomatic
pouch has arrived...
and she's here.
CLARISSE: Send her in.
CHARLO TTE/ Yes, ma'am.
CHARLO TTE/ l need more roses--
red, white, mauve.
Mauve!
-Miss AmeIia, weIcome.
-Hi.
Straight ahead to your Ieft.
Her Majesty is ready for you
in the Iibrary.
CLARlSSE/ Charlotte,
take notes, will you?
AmeIia, circIe sIowIy...
so I can evaIuate
the work to be done.
AmeIia!
Does your bad posture
affect your hearing?
-Turn.
-Oh, sorry.
No, no, no.
SIowIy, turn.
Slowly. Thank you.
Well, carriage, obviously.
Hairstyle.
CompIexion...
Stop!
Eyes...IoveIy...
but hidden beneath
bushman eyebrows.
The neck is seemIy.
Ears...
Iike her father.
ReaIIy? They are?
Oh, my!
Who has naiIs Iike these?
Everybody.
Tomorrow I wouId Iike
to see cIean fingers.
And you wiII wear stockings.
Not tights, not socks.
And I never want to see
those shoes again.
When waIking in a crowd...
one is under scrutiny
aII the time.
So we don't shIump,
Iike this.
We drop the shouIders...
we think taII...
we tuck under
and transfer the weight...
from one foot to--
No. Princesses never
cross their Iegs in pubIic.
Why don't you just tuck
one ankIe behind the other...
and pIace the hands
gracefuIIy on the knees.
Aah!
CharIotte,
I think it's time for tea.
MlA/ Tell me,
how does my mother--
or, really, any person,
for that matter--
go into
a parent-teacher conference...
and come out with a date?
Mia, Mr. O'ConneII
is not married...
he's not Iiving with anyone...
pIus he's not pierced,
tattooed, or hair-pIugged.
Do you reaIize how rare that is
south of Market Street?
Did it ever occur to you...
that if you dated
one of my teachers...
it wouId give the other kids...
Iicense to mock me
for the rest of my Iife?
No, you're right.
I didn't, and I'm sorry.
[Sighs]
It's just that Patrick--
Mr. O'ConneII--
is such a nice man.
He's a reaI gentIeman...
and I haven't met one of those
in a Iong, Iong time.
OK. It's--it's fine.
I just can't do anything
right anymore, can I?
[Meow]
BO YS/
Come on! Go for it!
-Come on, get her!
-ln your face!
Aah, aah, aah!
HARBULA/
Come on, come on!
Just bIock one, Mia!
I can't do this.
I'm a girI.
What am I, a duck?
No! I mean...
You're an athIetic girI.
I am a synchronized swimming,
yoga-doing...
horseback-riding,
waII-cIimbing-type girI.
My hand-eye coordination
is zero.
AII right,
you can go again Iater.
Josh! Get in here.
Yeah, I'm in.
So, I was
watching you earIier...
and you're way tense.
You know what I'm saying?
Soft kisses
on a summer's day...
You gotta think Iike the baII.
Be the baII.
You gotta stop it,
know what I mean?
-Heh?
-Heh.
Bring it on.
-Hey, Joe?
-Mm-hmm?
I'm turning the back seat
into a dressing room...
so I can change into
a proper outfit for madame.
Yes, weII,
don't forget your shoes.
Oh, thanks.
Strange town, San Francisco.
When I purchased the pumps...
they asked
if I wanted them wrapped...
or if I wanted to wear them.
AII right, cIosing.
Ah ah bop bop ba dop
Oh oh bop bop ba dop
Going up.
Oh little bitty pretty one
Come on and talk to me
Aah!
Let me grab you lovely one
You aII right?
Yeah--oh--I'm fine.
-Going down.
-Whoo!
Oh oh bop bop ba dop
I've never put on pantyhose,
but it sounds dangerous.
MlA/ Grandma?
ls it customary in Genovia...
to imprison your dinner guests
with Hermeez scarves?
CLARlSSE: lt's Hermes.
The scarf is mereIy
a training tooI.
EventuaIIy
you wiII Iearn to sit...
and eat properly without it.
Manners matter.
But enough
etiquette for the day.
Now, Genovia does
a lot of trade with Spain...
so we prepare for that.
The quickest way
to a Spanish heart is dance.
ShaII we?
Now teII me,
what kind of dancing do you do?
Dancing?
Just the normaI kind.
You know, Iike...
Bom chicka bom bom
Bom tss um bom
JOE: I see.
JOE/ We have
a Genovian alternative.
[Dance music pIaying]
Now, the dances here
are very sedate...
right from the hips.
In pIace.
No bobbing of the head,
pIease.
It's not a doggy
on a dashboard.
JOE/ Straight up.
Let's practice this here.
Now, this dance is...
between a waItz
and a tango, you see?
MIA: It's a wango?
JOE/ No.
AII right, here we go.
Spin out...
and spin into me.
Spin into--Uhh!
-[Gasps]
-OK.
I--No, no, no, no.
JOE/ Try again.
One more spin.
Very quickIy,
now puII away.
That's it. Good.
Good attitude.
Spin in.
-Good.
-I did it?
Grandma, I spun
without hurting anyone!
That's very good news.
Spin, spin, spin.
Yes, done.
Better.
It's coming aIong.
Now you may go home.
Thank you!
See you tomorrow!
Thank you, Joseph.
[Dance music pIaying]
You've been wearing
bIack too Iong.
P.A./ This is Coach Harbula.
You can sign up now
for the Baker Beach Party.
MIA: Oh! Sorry. Sorry.
JOSH: Hey, Bobby Bad!
Sorry.
LlLL Y/
Mia! Are you ready?
Oh, hey.
I'm reaIIy sorry...
but I can't do it today.
I've got a Grandma thing.
I'II caII you. Bye.
What? Has your grandma
turned into the big bad woIf?
JEREMlAH/ Shazam.
Cute, Jeremiah, but a way
to a girI's heart...
is not by treating her
Iike a vending machine.
SPEAKER/
Get off the grass!
[Message repeats
in severaI Ianguages]
Hi, AdoIpho!
I'm Iate!
She's Iate.
-You're Iate.
-I know.
I'm reaIIy sorry about it--
-And where is PaoIo?
-Send in PaoIo.
CLARlSSE/
Ah! Always prompt.
[ltalian accent]
Regina Mia. Buon giorno.
My assistant,
Gretchen and HeIga.
CLARlSSE/ Good afternoon.
We're so pIeased you couId
make yourseIf avaiIabIe.
Your Majesty.
We won't waste time.
Let the work begin.
PAOLO: Ah. Of course.
Where is the beautifuI girI?
My granddaughter AmeIia.
Aah!
She is gorgeous.
Let us take a cIoser Iook.
PaoIo, we have
a Iimited number of days...
before the state dinner.
Frizzy, busy, dizzy.
In the best sense.
Oh, I wouId Iike it
if your Iadies...
wouId aIso sign
our confidentiaIity agreement.
Majesty, they know
what is a secret, eh?
[Speaking foreign Ianguage]
CHARLO TTE/
Ex cuse me, Your Majesty.
The Genovian press secretary's
waiting for your caII.
Oh, yes, of course.
WeII, I'm afraid
I'm going to have to Ieave...
and come back
and be surprised.
[CIaps hands]
CharIotte,
watch him Iike a hawk.
PAOLO/ Buerste, Helga!
Danke.
So we begin, Principessa, eh?
In PaoIo's hands, remember...
you wiII be beautifuI.
You have thick hair.
Heh heh heh.
Like a woIf.
Ow!
Is aII right.
Heh heh heh.
Do you wear contact Ienses?
WeII, I have them...
but I don't reaIIy Iike
to wear them that much.
Now you do.
You broke my gIasses!
You broke my brush.
PAOLO/
Gretchen! Helga! Attack!
l love your eyebrows.
We'll call them
''Frida'' and ''Kahlo. ''
lf Brooke Shields
married Groucho Marx...
that child would have
your eyebrows.
Do you want to know
a big secret?
-TeII me.
-The cucumber does nothing.
Heh heh heh.
This is something we make up.
Majesty, PaoIo is exhausted...
because, Majesty,
onIy PaoIo can take this...
and this...
and give you...
BOTH: A princess.
Better. Much better.
Mille grazie.
Why don't we go and have
a wonderfuI cup of tea?
Si.
CLARlSSE/ Come, Mia.
[PIaying harmonica]
LiIIy, the car's here!
LlLL Y/ l'm coming!
[PIays]
Thanks for the ride.
Thank you.
Hey.
What?
MichaeI, don't aIways think
you can get a ride with us.
Oy.
LlLL Y/ Who destroyed you?
Oh. You think
it Iooks that bad?
You Iook ridicuIous.
You shouId sue.
WeII, um...
[Laughs]
I know it's a IittIe
straighter and shorter--
Weirder!
An attractive weirder.
LlLL Y/ No.
lt's not attractive.
Seat beIts, pIease.
LlLL Y/ What l really
can't understand...
you ditched me
again yesterday...
when l needed your help
on the Greenpeace petition.
This bag!
You have one of these bags?
You know we couId hock that...
and feed a whoIe
Third WorId country?
Am I right?
No.
If there are
no more passengers...
I think
we shouId cIose the door.
LlLL Y/ You used
to care more about...
what was inside your head
instead of on it.
Come on, Mia. Fess up.
l don't know
where you are these days...
and now you're turning
into an A-crowd wannabe?
You're morphing into
one of them!
And who knows, next week...
you could be waving
pom-poms in my face.
You sold out!
Was my rear-view mirror
fogging up...
or was someone tearing
back there?
I'm fine.
Very weII. Then I'II go
meet your grandmother.
But you shouId know that...
no one can make you feeI
inferior without your consent.
EIeanor RooseveIt said that.
Yes. Another speciaI Iady
Iike yourseIf.
I'II be back at 3:00.
Thank you.
She has a hat.
Do you reaIIy think
wearing that hat...
wiII keep peopIe from
seeing your new Lana-do?
Just because
the student popuIation...
might be moraIIy bankrupt
doesn't mean they're bIind.
LiIIy!
Just stop it, OK?
Just because your hair sucks,
get off mine!
MICHAEL: Ouch. Thank you.
MichaeI, can you pIease
pretend you have a Iife...
for just one moment?
Hey, reIax. Breathe.
Hee. Hoo. Hee.
[PIaying harmonica]
What did you just say to me?
You heard me.
I am so sick...
of you ragging on me
aII the time...
and aIways teIIing me
what to do.
I get enough of that
from my mother...
and now my grandmother,
and I don't need it from you!
I'm not an idiot...
so I know something's going on
you're not teIIing me!
Friends teII,
so you know what?
Here is your friendship charm.
I'm taking it off
and it's going in the dirt!
Don't do that, OK?
Just--Ugh!
AII right, just wait.
Why?
I wiII teII you the truth...
but you're gonna think
it's reaIIy stupid...
and you're gonna freak.
Try me.
[Buzzing]
[Gasps] Shut up!
Shut up! Shut up!
Is that aII you can say?
I'm sorry I was harsh...
and I don't know
what eIse there is to say.
WiII you come on my cabIe show?
No, I can't.
This is a royaI secret.
You can't teII anyone.
Not even MichaeI.
EspeciaIIy not MichaeI.
You are sworn to secrecy.
-Of course.
-Secret handshake.
[Spitting]
MlA/ We might have to think of
a new secret handshake.
LILL Y: Are you reaIIy sure
you can run a country?
You can bareIy
keep your goIdfish aIive...
for more than
a coupIe of days.
LiIIy, I'm reaIIy sure
of anything right now.
Listen, there are pros and cons
to being a princess.
Shh! Don't say that word.
PeopIe can hear.
CIass has begun!
CIass has begun and I have
a IittIe surprise for you.
Pop quiz.
French RevoIution.
Mr. O'ConneII,
there's a schooI ruIe...
that says nobody's aIIowed
to wear hats in cIass.
And l don't think
anybody should be...
an ex ception
to that rule, do you?
O'CONNELL/ No, Lana.
Mia, I'm sorry, but hats
are against the dress code.
Mia?
[CIass reacts]
Mamma Mia.
LANA: Look who's trying
to fit in now.
ANNA: It's a wig, right?
MELISSA: I think it Iooks
reaIIy sweet, Mia.
ANNA/ Looks like
she got a head transplant.
WeII, I think it rocks.
And you know what?
VoItaire. Hair.
I wouId personaIIy Iike
to Iearn about VoItaire.
OK, LiIIy, OK.
Everybody settIe down now.
Quiz time, OK?
CLARlSSE/ Lovely.
But now we need fountains...
Iights in the trees.
The Japanese Embassy
has a waterfaII.
Why can't we have fountains?
We have a fountain
up there, ma'am.
WeII, I wouId Iike
at Ieast two in here.
CharIotte,
just make me an Eden.
Yes, ma'am.
-AmeIia? Let's continue.
-Hmm?
CLARlSSE/ ln your spare time,
l would like you to read these.
''What's in a name?
''That which we caII a rose
by any other word...
''wouId smeII as sweet.''
And so you wave to them...
and acknowIedge them
gracefuIIy.
HeIIo.
No. Not quite so big,
because, of course...
it's very, very exhausting
after a whiIe.
Very funny, dear.
Try it properIy.
Waving--
even more gentIy--
You say, ''Thank you
for being here today.''
-Thank you.
-For being here.
JOE: I'm sorry, ma'am.
I must pick up
the prime minister.
Excuse me.
BOTH: WeII, thank you
for being here today.
MlA/
So this is considered art?
HELEN/ My parents did this
in the Sixties.
Yes! They had an exhibition
at Woodstock.
And I guess you're trying
to bring it back?
HELEN/
Well, this beats homework.
Yeah. Some moms heIp
their kids with homework...
we do this.
Oh, nice shot!
Oh, yes, I Iike it.
BuII's-eye!
[Laughing]
-Yeah!
-I did it!
l love life,
life loves me
Everything in the world
This is more fun
than princess Iessons.
[Dripping]
MICHAEL: What are you doing
this Saturday night?
Are you guys pIaying?
We're rehearsing
some new things.
We got two new songs.
Oh, yeah?
PIus, surprise, we got
the new parts for your 'Stang.
Oh, yay.
We couId put it together
together.
OK. Is this Iike a date?
-No.
-[GiggIes]
Music, cars.
-WouId it incIude pizza?
-Pizza's a given.
MlA/ With M&Ms?
Wait up! Wait for me!
Not you!
I don't even know you!
-WeII, then, I am in.
-Great!
LlLL Y/ Hi! Whoo-hoo!
Saturday, it's on?
Yeah. Great. Hey, LiI.
-Hi.
-What's up?
-What's happening?
-I don't know.
[Loud chatter]
MlA/ What's going on?
-Maybe it's a protest.
-Maybe.
Excuse me. Hi.
Who are you waiting for?
LANA/ There she is right there!
Mia Thermopolis!
We're waiting for you.
Right here, Princess!
TaIk to me!
MlA/ Lilly, did you tell?
I didn't say anything!
Princess Mia!
Who's your favorite actor?
Why are they caIIing her
''Princess''?
WOMAN/ Princess Mia,
what do you do about pimples?
Come on.
Let's just go, pIease!
MAN/ Can we quote you,
Your Majesty?
Come on, Mia.
Let's get inside.
LANA: Oh, Mia! Ohh!
Wait! Wait! Wait!
Excuse me, mister? Hi!
The phone's ringing
off the hook.
What?!
Oh!
O'CONNELL/
Mia, your mother's on her way.
[TeIephone rings]
Gupta. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm.
The queen is coming
to Grove High SchooI.
SUKl/ A limo with flags!
MALE REPORTER/ A Genovian
limousine has arrived.
The queen is getting out.
SUKI: Your Majesty,
why aII the secrets?
AII we keep hearing
is ''No comment.''
Do you have a comment?
Your Majesty--
WiII you be visiting
the White House?
Are you taking
the princess home?
MlA/ Mom, l don't know
who told on me.
HELEN/ We'll get to
the bottom of this.
Here's your tea, Your Majesty.
I'm sorry
we don't have finer china.
That's perfectIy aII right.
Here.
Joseph?
-Speak.
-Paolo?
Majesty, it was I
who toId the press about you.
I outed you. So to speak.
I don't mean to impIy--
-Grazie.
-Prego.
But not for money, Principessa.
Paolo hates money.
He spits on money.
There was no money.
Well, some money.
After aII, a man Iike me,
each ring is--
The point is,
it was pride and ego...
who drove me to know that
royalty would see one day...
the beauty was mine!
The hair was mine!
That I, PaoIo Puttanesca,
was responsibIe for--
-Grazie.
-Prego.
[Speaking ItaIian]
By the way,
your hair--magnificent.
The next time,
we go a IittIe Iighter?
MAN/ Your Highness,
would you like to say anything?
GUPTA/
lsn't that just awful?
Doesn't anyone respect
royalty anymore?
What is it Iike in Genovia,
Your Majesty?
Do peopIe just fawn over you?
I wonder, wouId you give us
a moment aIone?
GUPTA/
l'm the vice-principal.
Joseph, wouId you take
this fine educator...
and show her your security pIans
for AmeIia's safety?
What?
Ah, yes, of course.
Your Majesty, thank you.
Your security system
is a bit Iax.
Oh, is it?
HELEN/ A week ago,
Mia was a normal little kid.
She has never been normaI.
She was born royaI.
And we cope with the press
every singIe day...
and we wiII do it again.
You don't have to do this.
You can get out of
this whoIe thing right now.
Your mother is right,
AmeIia.
We had a bargain.
AII right.
I wiII think about it...
and Iet you know soon.
CLARlSSE/ Good.
A diplomatic answer.
PoIite, but vague.
Mia ThermopoIis
is the daughter...
of IocaI ecIectic artist
HeIen ThermopoIis.
They currently live in
a refurbished firehouse...
south of Market Street.
Mia is also the only grandchild
of Queen Clarisse Renaldi...
whose husband, King Rupert,
passed away last year.
This is
Nelson Davenport, KRLH.
[SchooI beII rings]
WOMAN ON P.A./
Will the Feng Shui Club...
please stop rearranging
the tables on the lawn?
LILL Y:
HeIIo? Princess?
You're the most popuIar
girI in schooI.
Everybody wants to take
your picture.
Everybody wants
to be your best friend.
-Hi, LiIIy.
-Hi.
LlLL Y/ So l've made a list...
of aII the reasons for you
not to be a princess.
Number one--no privacy.
Number two--you aIways have
to Iook just right.
-Number three--
-Whoo!
MlA/ Ha ha ha!
LIL Y: Are you OK?
MIA: Ha ha! Number three.
What was number three?
Number three--
you can't go nutso.
You can't be aII ''BIeah''
during the day.
LiIIy, um...
I reaIIy don't want
to taIk about this...
at the moment, OK?
Just one Iast question.
Now that you're ''out''...
wouId you come on my cabIe show
on Saturday night?
Yeah, sure.
I Iove you!
I'II buy you another charm
for your charm braceIet.
OK? Ooh!
See you Saturday night!
Joe!
Yes, Miss Mia?
I don't want to run
my own country.
I just want to pass
10th grade...
so can't I just teII everyone
that I simpIy quit?
No one can quit being
who they reaIIy are...
not even a princess.
Now, you can refuse the job...
but you are a princess
by birth.
How can I teII
if I can even do the job?
By simpIy, simpIy trying.
Like the fancy dinner coming up.
She thinks you're ready.
MlA/ Really?
ShaII we practice
entering Iike a princess?
OK.
Entering.
JOSEPH/ At the grand ball,
you enter with the queen...
but at the state dinner,
you enter unaccompanied.
Shoulders back. Smile.
They're all happy to see you.
BARON/ Ah, there she is.
BARONESS/ How is she?
You are much prettier.
[Mia exhaIes]
JOE: WeII done.
The worst is over.
Our diIigent Prime Minister,
Sebastian Motaz...
HeIIo.
And his IoveIy wife
SheiIa...
Nice to meet you.
And their charming
daughter Marissa.
Oh! Lord Fricker,
Iet me take your brandy gIass.
You won't need it in there.
And easy on the schnapps.
Remember the Winter Dinner.
MARISSA: I'm not aIIowed
to go to the party.
[ChuckIing]
Dinner is served.
[Snoring]
MO TAZ/
Her Majesty, Queen Clarisse.
Someday we wiII own
Genovia again...
and you wiII be queen.
And your face will be
on a postage stamp.
CLARlSSE/
How are the children, Robbie?
WouId you Iike
to see them, ma'am?
There's Ryan and Bridget.
CLARlSSE/
Oh, they're beautiful.
WouId you Iike to see?
PRlNCESS PALlSADES/
So, Mr. Prime Minister...
how wouId you say
the pear market...
is doing in Genovia?
The Genovian pear market
is bIossoming...
if you'II pardon the pun.
[OverIapping conversations]
And that's their princess.
They grow up so fast,
don't they?
MIA: Hi.
You wanted to see me?
Is everything aII right?
Um, yes, yes.
What was happening
with the ice bucket?
Oh. I just had
a IittIe cIumsy moment.
-OK.
-Bye.
The food's deIicious,
by the way.
SHEILA: It was for
a feminist group in ScotIand...
caIIed ''Tarts for Tartan.''
They were a wiId bunch.
Very exciting.
Thank you.
Between the courses
to cIeanse the paIate.
Bien?
[Whimpers]
[MumbIes] I'm sorry.
It's a IittIe coId.
SHEILA: She didn't reaIize
it was frozen.
What shouId we do?
WeII, we shouId take
that much, too.
Just do the same thing.
MIA: No! No! It's coId!
[Both mumbIing]
They are acting Iike monkeys.
-Mmm!
[MumbIing]
[Snorts]
[Snorting]
[Bang] Ah!
[Gasps]
Have you ever experienced
that instant headache...
when you eat ice too quickIy?
No.
Wash your hands.
[CIearing throat]
[CIears throat]
[Tapping]
Excuse me.
I'm reaIIy sorry.
It happens aII the time.
I wouId Iike
to propose a toast...
to the Baroness
and Baron Von Troken.
May you aIways be Baron.
Ahh, the famous Genovian
pear and cheese dessert.
What eIse?
Ooh.
WOMAN:
...to our country.
You are nothing
but an overdressed, drunken--
I'm outta here!
Oof! Aah!
WOMAN/ Oh! l am sopping!
Was that my fauIt?
Ha ha ha ha!
[Laughing]
ShaII we adjourn
to the grand haII for coffee?
Sorry I Iet you down, Dad.
[Winding]
[Sighs]
Good night, Louie.
[Music pIaying]
CLARlSSE/ This place was such
a mess when l first arrived.
l've been spending
every spare moment in it l can.
Pick up one of these.
Make yourseIf usefuI.
Spray everything.
You're not mad at me
for what happened?
ActuaIIy,
I found it rather funny.
Reminds me of
my first royaI dinner party.
I accidentaIIy knocked
over a suit of armor...
and the spear went right
through the suckIing pig.
AmeIia, why don't we canceI
Iessons for today...
and just have some fun?
MlA/ Fun?
You're not too busy
for something Iike that?
Your Majesty,
Lady Jerome has arrived...
and l have the French
Consulate's assistant on hold.
He wants to confirm
tonight's dinner.
Send my apoIogies.
CanceI everything for today.
l'm being shown
San Francisco...
by a true San Franciscan.
Tell Joseph l'll need the car.
Yes, ma'am.
Oh, wait!
I want to show you my baby.
lt's a she thing
and it's all in me
l can be anything
that l want to be
Don't consider me a minority
Ladies, help me out...
CLARlSSE/ l haven't sat
in the front seat of a car...
in the longest time.
MlA/ By the way...
thanks for the money
for my car, Grandma.
CLARlSSE/
So, where are you taking me?
MlA/
Well, do you have any change?
CLARlSSE/ lt's not appropriate
for royalty to jingle.
MlA/ OK.
l'll get the change.
This one's my favorite!
You put the quarter in
and grab his hand.
CLARlSSE/ l touch that?
Yes, you touch that.
And then
you press the button...
and, uh...
And then you just go.
CLARlSSE/
Looks like Rupert's cousin...
from Liechtenstein.
How do I know when it's ready?
Oh, it'II just go.
There you go!
-Go, go, go!
-Ow!
CLARlSSE/
You enjoy this humiliation?
MlA/ Well,
it's hard the first time...
but you can do it again.
HoId this.
MlA/ Oh, come on!
You can do it, Grandma!
I'm ready for you this time!
Ready?
Go! It's going!
It's going!
Go, go, go, go, go!
You're doing it!
Go! Oh, yes!
Hah! Ho!
Got it! Give me five!
-Five?
-Five.
Oh!
[BeII dings]
[Mia Iaughs]
Oh!
I want one of these!
Just not this one.
So...did my father aIways
want to be a prince?
Oh, yes.
Except once,
about 15 years ago...
he seriousIy considered
renouncing his titIe...
because he met
a lovely artist...
who showed him
wonderful things...
about how life could be...
how he couId be.
But?
But he had
a decision to make...
and nobody
couId make it for him.
Not l--though many
people thought l did--
or anybody else.
PhiIIipe knew
that my firstborn...
his brother Pierre,
wanted to abdicate...
which he did, eventuaIIy,
to join the church.
Your father reaIized...
that the Iove he couId
have for one person--
or even two--
couId not make him
forget the Iove...
he feIt for his country
and its peopIe.
It was the hardest thing
he ever had to do.
Um...oh...
Do you want a bite of this?
Why not?
WeII, here goes.
Why, it's deIicious!
-ReaIIy?
-Mm-hmm.
Oh, OK!
Let's get another one!
MlA/ lt's the fastest way
back to the Consulate...
but l hate this hill!
I do beIieve I'm beginning
to feeI that corn dog.
Uhh! Eh! Ah!
Maybe you can just
sneak gentIy through?
-OK, I'II try.
-Good.
CLARlSSE/ Right.
Now, blaze on up.
MlA/ l--l got it!
-You've got it.
-l got it!
You've got it!
Uhh!
MlA/ Oh!
l haven't got it!
CLARlSSE/
Uh-oh! Mia! Brake!
Brake! Look out!
Down here!
MlA/ Aah!
-Oh!
9-1 -1, I need to report
an accident.
CONDUCTOR/
You didn't hear the bell?!
[BeII ringing]
They put me on hoId.
Oh, for the Iove of God!
CONDUCTOR/ Put down
destruction of public property.
I wiII, I wiII.
And Iast, but not Ieast...
driving without a Iicense.
Accompanied by an adult
whose license expired...
45 years ago.
I've been trying
to teII you, Officer.
Licenses don't expire
in Genovia.
Not for the queen.
Don't I have
dipIomatic immunity?
You do, but her
we have to take downtown.
What?
OFFlCER/ l'm sorry, miss.
It's aII right, Officer.
I understand.
I...
I understand perfectIy.
You do?
Mia, no town, no city,
no country...
can function peacefuIIy...
if its officers and
its transportation engineers...
don't foIIow
the Ietter of the Iaw.
Why, l would be proud...
to have two such
fine, honorabIe gentIemen...
serving in Genovia.
OFFlCER/
Aw, shucks, ma'am.
Ma'am, we're not aII that.
Oh, but you most certainIy are.
As a matter of fact...
I wouId Iike
to bestow upon you...
the honor of the...
Genovian Order of the...
uh...Genovian
Order of the Rose.
Oh--oh! Ooh!
-Ooh!
Oh.
WouId you pIease kneeI?
Um...does anybody
have a sabre?
Oh! I've got an umbreIIa!
I have an emergency brake.
This wiII do fine,
thank you.
With the power vested in me...
by the royaI crown of Genovia...
I dub thee--
Artie Washington,
San Francisco, ma'am.
CLARlSSE/
Arthur Washington.
And l dub thee--
Bruce Macintosh
of San Leandro.
Bruce Macintosh...
masters of
the Order of the Rose.
And aII of you bear witness...
to this auspicious moment
in history.
PIease rise.
OFFlCER/ Wait till l go home
and tell Bernice.
Now, Mia, I know
you don't want to go...
aII the way downtown, but--
That reaIIy won't be necessary.
No one got hurt, did they?
-We're insured.
-OK.
ChivaIry ain't dead,
you know, so--
NobIe Arthur,
how very kind.
OFFlCER/
Do you need a lift home?
Oh, that wouId be
very heIpfuI, thank you.
Come aIong, Mia.
CLARlSSE/
Good-bye, trolley people!
MlA/ Please take the car
to Doctor Motors?
-Good-bye!
-So Iong!
Good-bye!
Good-bye.
You were awesome!
You are the cooIest queen ever!
AII in a day's work.
Wave good-bye!
That's a queen!
WouId you Iike to
sIide in first?
I never sIide.
Good-bye.
Thank you.
TOURlSTS/ Good-bye!
MAN/ Hey, Bruce!
How about gettin' on
your royal carriage...
and gettin' us out of here?
TOUR DRlVER/ Here she is.
This is the possible new
Princess of Genovia here.
That's right.
Anyone know where Genovia is?
Anyone?
TOUR KlD/ lt's a country
between France and Spain.
That was a question
on ''Jeopardy. ''
TOUR DRlVER/ This is the girl
that won the genetic lottery.
TOUR KlD/ Look!
Here's the princess!
HARBULA/
OK, back up. Let's go.
The princess
is late for school.
TOUR KlD/
Could you sign my backpack?
TOUR KlD/ Hi, Princess.
May l have
your autograph, please?
Hi. What's your name?
LiIIy.
LiIIy? That's
my best friend's name.
WouId you consider you and
the princess best friends?
I wouId definiteIy say that.
We do everything together.
We shop together,
get our hair done together.
We even finish
each other's sentences.
It's very cooI.
MlA/
And what's your name?
CharIotte.
CharIotte?
You two must be twins, huh?
CHARLO TTE/ Yes.
MlA/ l don't have
any sisters...
but l do have a cat--
Fat Louie.
CHARLO TTE/
That's a funny name!
Will you take a picture
with me, Princess?
HARBULA/ The princess
is late for algebra.
MlA/ Thank you so much.
The pack is back.
Are you ready?
[Stops pIaying]
Do they see you
when they look at me?
Do they see
my many personalities?
Oh, no
Can you help me?
Does anybody hear me?
Can they even see me?
This is not reality
Oh
Mia.
Why can't I just
reach up and simpIy...
Hi...hi.
Step into my office.
Why can't l flap my arms
and fly and fly and fly?
Tell me why...
Hey.
Hi.
So, um...
I hope what Lana said on TV...
didn't freak you out
too much.
-No.
-OK, good.
Because I broke up with her
because of it...
and I hate
phony pubIicity seekers.
Anyway...
Saturday night's
the big beach party.
Uh-huh.
I think it'd be cooI
if we went together.
See you on the waves?
OK. OK.
Bye. [Laughs]
P.A./ Attention.
Remember to watch Grove
High School's TV cable show...
Saturday nights with
your host Lilly Moscovitz.
MlA/ Michael.
Princess.
You wiII never guess what
Josh Bryant just asked me.
''Can I borrow a comb?''
No. He asked me...
to go to the Baker
Beach Party with him.
That's this Saturday, right?
Yeah. So I was thinking...
I couId come by
the garage next week...
and Iisten to your band
pIay then. AII right?
Oh, yeah. That's--Yeah.
-Are you OK?
-Yeah, I'm fine.
AII right.
WeII, I have to go...
but thank you so much.
Bye!
Bye.
Too many feelings
Emotions running away with me
There's a feeling inside me
HELEN/ ls Joseph driving you?
MlA/ No.
Joseph was nice enough...
to take the night off.
I'II take the schooI bus
with the other kids.
I Iook Iike an asparagus.
But a very, very cute asparagus.
No, it's OK.
I'II just wear my bIue suit.
Are you nervous
about the beach party?
No. ActuaIIy,
I'm kind of excited.
I think I might get
my first reaI kiss.
-Oh! Who from?
-Josh Bryant.
That Backstreet Boy cIone
you've had a crush on forever?
He is not
a Backstreet Boy cIone.
He's a saiIor.
I thought
he was never nice to you.
Oh. WeII...
I don't know.
He is now.
I just hope that
if he kisses me...
um...my foot pops.
Pops?
Yeah. You know,
in oId fiIms...
whenever a girI
gets seriousIy kissed...
her foot wouId
just kind of...pop.
Ha ha ha! Pop!
Ha ha ha!
I'm gonna go change now.
I hope you get your first
reaI foot-poppin' kiss.
We are Mark and Brian...
and weIcome to
the Baker Beach Bash.
MARK/ Now, with one week
left of school...
you're gonna be
out for the summer...
and we know
what's on your mind.
How are you gonna
find that summer love?
And if you do,
how do you know if it's true?
Here to tell us all about it,
please welcome...
Lana and the Lanettes!
MARK AND BRlAN/
Lana, Anna, and Fontana!
Stupid cupid,
you're a real mean guy
l'd like to clip your wings
so you can't fly
l'm in love
and it's a crying shame
And l know that
you're the one to blame
ANNA AND FONTANA/
Stupid cupid
Hey, hey, set me free
Stupid cupid,
stop picking on me
You mix ed me up but good
Right from the very start
Hey, go play Robin Hood
With somebody else's heart
You got me jumping
like a crazy clown...
JOSH: Uhh!
MIA: That was so--
-Awesome, huh?
-Amazing!
Ha ha!
I'm gIad you had fun.
I thought you'd get scared,
honestIy...
'cause most of the girIs
I take on the boat...
they freak out.
Oh, no. I wasn't scared.
Stupid cupid,
stop picking on me
Stupid cupid
And now it's time for
your favorite taIk show host...
direct from
Grove High SchooI...
the IoveIy LiIIy.
[Gong]
LlLL Y/ lt's Saturday night...
and welcome to my cable show,
''Shut Up and Listen. ''
Later on in my show...
I wiII be joined by
our very own Princess Mia...
to discuss
her positive opinion...
of the ''Save the Sea Otter''
movement.
UntiI she arrives...
I've asked
Grove's magic master...
Jeremiah Hart...
to entertain us
with some sIeight of hand.
HeIIo, foIks.
Hold me, baby,
'cause you love me
With every single touch
lt's more than just a crush
Baby, you know
Reach me
Only you can see me
And what l crave so much
lt's more than just a crush
Every time we touch
GlRL/ Awesome!
Hey, Princess!
Give us a smiIe!
How did they find me here?
What?
How did they find me here?!
PHO TOGRAPHER/
Hey, wave, everybody!
You're on TV!
Wait, Princess, don't be shy!
Come back!
BRlAN/ Hey, chopper boy,
look over here!
Royal deejays!
Josh!
Oh, no!
I am so sorry about aII this.
No, it's fine.
They can't get us in here.
We were having
such a good time...
and then
they came and ruined it.
I know, I know.
Look, they can't see us...
we can't see them.
We're aII aIone
in this IittIe shack.
ActuaIIy, you know what?
It's kind of cozy in here...
and there's no one I'd rather
be here with than you.
ReaIIy?
Yeah.
-Josh?
-Mm-hmm?
This isn't romantic.
Um...it just...
No. It's my foot.
It's caught
in a voIIeybaII net.
Yeah. Here.
Ooh!
GlRL/ Hey! My dad
thinks l'm a princess!
GlRL/
l'm a friend of Mia's!
I teII you what.
WhiIe we're waiting...
how about a foot massage?
That wouId be so wonderfuI.
Thank you.
No. ActuaIIy,
I mean you give me one.
Oh, yeah.
And indeed,
it is the queen of hearts!
LlLL Y/ Thank you, Jeremiah...
for your potpourri
of prestidigitations...
for the past hour.
ObviousIy, Princess Mia
has a probIem...
appearing here tonight...
and I'm sure
she has a good excuse.
l'm Lilly Moscovitz
for ''Shut Up and Listen. ''
Thank you and good night.
Mia...
the coast is cIear.
ReaIIy?
They're gone. Yeah.
Oh, good.
So, what do you say
we go find...
a more romantic spot?
OK.
PHO TOGRAPHER/ Quiet! Quiet!
[Cameras cIicking]
[Shouting]
JOSH: No! Stay!
[OverIapping questions]
Give her a smooch!
REPORTER/ Come on!
Give her a big, sloppy wet one!
PHO TOGRAPHER/ Hold it!
Uhh!
Hit him again!
MlA/ Go away! No, no, no!
Go away, all of you!
The princess
has Ieft the buiIding.
REPORTER/ Who have we got?
What's your name?
NELSON/
Where do you go to school?
Josh Bryant.
I go to Grove High SchooI.
What are we,
friends with Mia now?
Yes. We hate Josh.
Sorry. It's hard to keep up
with who we're not taIking to.
Here she comes!
ALL: Mia!
I'm reaIIy sorry.
I can't taIk.
I have to go
get my cIothes.
WeII, here.
We've got your cIothes.
You'II be a Iot warmer.
You guys want to heIp me?
Yeah. Josh is such an idiot.
We'II make sure
no one bothers you.
Thank you. Um...
That's reaIIy nice of you.
This is so great of you.
Thank you so much.
Everything's fine.
MlA/ ls anybody coming?
-No!
MlA/ Guys,
l really appreciate this.
Thank you.
She's got her bathing suit off.
OK, now!
Princess, hi!
Aah!
REPORTER/ That was
the scream of Princess Mia.
Go away, aII of you, pIease!
HARBULA/
OK. Come here, Mia.
Piranhas, aII of you!
Back off!
HELEN/ My mom always told me
l couldn't cry...
and toId me to be a big girI...
but you've been hurt,
so you just cry.
[Crying]
It was reaIIy bad.
My foot didn't even pop.
SUKl/
lt was just last night...
that San Francisco's
own IittIe princess...
partied at the beach...
but what started out
as innocent fun...
soon turned into
allegedly too much fun.
This is Suki Sanchez
for KPFW.
PIease say something.
CLARlSSE/
Well, there's not much to say.
A picture's
worth a thousand words...
and you have two pictures.
I embarrassed the famiIy,
didn't I?
Not to put too fine
a point on it, yes, you did.
I think you're making
a wise decision...
to abstain from the job.
I suppose
I won't come to the baII.
CLARlSSE/
Of course you should come.
You're stiII famiIy.
Just because you don't
want to be our princess...
doesn't mean
we're sending you into exile.
Your mother's planning to come.
All your guests are invited.
Ex cept for your beach friends.
Now, if you'll ex cuse me...
I'm meeting with the press
to do some damage controI.
You can come in now.
If I may say so...
that did not go very weII.
Is this the way
a princess shouId act?
My information teIIs me
that boy was using her.
The kiss
was mereIy a device...
so that he couId get
his 15 minutes of fame.
And her friends
didn't heIp, either.
Anna, FaIana, Banana,
Bandana, Montana...
I have no idea
what you're taIking about.
Why didn't she have
enough common sense...
to deaI with this?
She's onIy 15...
but today,
she acted beyond her years.
She showed great respect...
and gracefuIIy accepted
your criticism.
You're saying that as a queen,
I was too harsh on her.
I was criticaI of the person...
who couId become
the next ruIer of my country.
No. I'm saying,
as a grandmother...
you might have been too harsh
on your granddaughter.
[Sighs]
Do you think she can do it?
Oh, I have no doubts, ma'am.
I thought so, too.
What makes you different
Makes you beautiful
What's there inside you
Shines through to me
ln your eyes l see
All the love l'll ever need
BOY:
Hey, it's Mia ThermopoIips.
Can you autograph your picture?
Josh did.
Hey, there's Princess Pucker-up.
[BeII rings]
What makes you different
makes you beautiful
What's there inside you
Shines through to me
ln your eyes l see
All the love l'll ever need
LiIIy?
Hey, can I taIk to you
for a minute, pIease?
LiIIy, can I just
taIk to you for a minute?
-Is that cooI?
-Sure. Let's taIk.
But about what, hmm?
How you broke
my brother's heart...
or how you stuck me
with Jeremiah...
during my cabIe show doing...
''Pick a card, pick a card.''
Mwah mwah mwah!
I'm sorry, OK?
I forgot to caII you
and teII you...
that I couIdn't make it.
So I was stuck with
the Happy Houdini...
whiIe you make out
with the Yachting Yahoo.
Those are reaIIy
good aIIiterations.
No! I don't want to taIk
about aIIiterations!
LiIIy, I came up here
to teII you that I'm sorry!
I'm sorry I missed
your cabIe show...
and I'm just reaIIy sorry.
LILL Y: I can't beIieve
that you hung me up...
after aII I did for you.
I kept your royaI secret.
And do you know
how hard it is...
to have a cabIe show
and keep a secret?
You didn't keep it
a secret from me...
how jerky you thought
my being a princess was.
WeII, congratuIations.
You got your wish.
I'm not gonna be a princess.
You're not?
No.
But I want you to be.
What?
[Sighs]
I didn't mean it.
The green monster
of jeaIousy came out...
because you were Miss PopuIar...
and l thought l was
losing my best friend...
so I got angry and upset
and hurt and...
I toId you!
I need an attitude adjustment.
But the truth is...
you being a princess
is kind of a miracIe.
Whoa! No!
What miracIe?
It's a nightmare!
No! Think about it!
I just found out
that my cabIe show...
onIy reaches 12 peopIe.
Wanting to rock the world,
but having zip power like me--
now, that's a nightmare.
But you--Wow!
I mean...
MIA: What is so ''Wow''?
Wow is having the power
to affect change...
make peopIe Iisten.
How many teenagers
have that power?
What more of a miracIe
do you want?
WeII...
we'II just have to find
a different miracIe.
Not more, just different.
Listen...
tomorrow night...
is the Genovian
Independence Day baII...
and to make up for
my missing your cabIe show...
I'm inviting you.
I hope you'II forgive me...
and I hope you come.
LILL Y: But what wiII I wear?
MIA: [SqueaIs]
Mmm! Yay!
I don't know, but it
doesn't reaIIy matter.
I'm just happy
that you're gonna come!
LILL Y: Thanks.
And you can be a princess.
-No, I can't.
-Yes, you can.
-No, l can't.
Let's move it in.
Move in! Let's go!
HARBULA/ Bobby Bad,
hang up the phone!
Yes, Mom. I'II go to
the dentist after schooI.
I hate it when
they move in Iike that.
Mia, it's not
a championship game.
It's not even a big game.
It's just gym cIass.
Just hit the baII.
I don't want to fIunk you
in gym cIass.
Come on. You can do it.
Keep your eye on the ball.
CHEERLEADERS/
That's all right! That's OK!
You're gonna hit it anyway!
Go, Lions!
[CheerIeaders shrieking]
Come on, girIs.
It's a baII, not a snake.
Back in formation!
I'm sorry.
FouI baII.
It's aII right.
You got a piece of it.
It's OK.
Just focus.
Ha ha ha!
HARBULA/ Focus.
Focus.
That's aII right! That's OK!
Come on, Mia.
Remember, it's onIy a game!
HARBULA/
Keep your eye on the ball.
Go, Lions!
CHEERLEADERS/ Grr-eat!
Let's go! Let's go!
BOBBY BAD/ Would you
rather hit a beach ball?
Order me a pizza, huh?
Pepperoni.
Uhh!
Oh! Oh!
[GirIs screaming]
-Run, Mia!
-AII right! Go! Go!
I gotta go. Get up!
What are you doing?
Get up!
HARBULA/ All the way, Mia!
Hi, Josh.
Come on, girI!
HARBULA/
All the way, Mia! Come on!
Safe! And you passed.
Whoo! Mia!
HARBULA/ Nice job, Mia.
Way to go!
[BeII rings]
Oh! Uh...it's open.
Come on in.
MichaeI! Hi.
How are you?
-What?
-LittIe guy on your--
Oh! Um...
Did LiIIy teII you
that I caIIed...
because I...caIIed.
I brought your car.
Oh, thank you.
Seven times I caIIed.
Doc said that he fixed
what he couId...
and if you had any probIems,
give him a caII.
Oh, OK.
Do you want the check now?
I have the Iast payment.
Yeah. Thank you.
MlA/
Are you hungry or thirsty?
MlCHAEL/ No.
Oh! Here it is.
Um...Iook.
Thank you so much
for doing this for me.
It's reaIIy, reaIIy great
of you.
I didn't do it for you.
Doc Iets the band practice.
Right. Of course.
I heIp with the cars.
Oh, here.
Oh, thanks.
I know you're stiII mad at me
for bIowing you off...
and I'm reaIIy sorry I did.
But I am going to try
to make it up to you.
How?
MIA:
WeII, I'm stiII going...
to the Genovian
Independence Day baII...
and I'm inviting you.
lt could be fun, you know.
I'm wearing this great dress
that I can't breathe in...
and LiIIy's got a date.
Josh Iooks better in a tux.
Oh. Um...
But, see, it's...
I reaIIy want you to be
the one I share it with.
You don't have to wear a tux.
You can wear sweatpants
for aII I care.
Don't worry about me.
I just consider myseIf
royaIIy fIushed.
Ow!
LlLL Y/
Stop the bovine massacre!
Sign up now and save a cow!
Vegetarians have right
to eat special.
Make Grove School
more tofu-friendly.
MIA: HeIIo.
LILL Y: Hi. Go sit by Jeremiah.
Be there in a minute.
LANA/ She's wearing
that dorky hat again.
Hey, you want
to see a trick?
No. Not right now.
What are you doing?
Writing a story?
Oh, weII...
my portfoIio's increased...
by 30%since the Iast quarter.
Look what we have.
The perfect nerd coupIe.
Jeremiah and Mia.
Oh! Miah and Mia!
Listen, Jere.
My friends and I were wondering.
The sweater you're wearing--
was it designed for you...
or did the knitting machine
just bIow up?
Sunglasses, girls.
It's Jeremiah hair gIare.
ls one of your magic tricks
your hair?
Ha ha!
-Hey, Lana?
-Huh?
That is such
a cute cheerIeading outfit.
lt's so clean-cut.
I bet it goes with anything.
Of course it does!
Aah! Aah!
[Gasps] Aah!
Aah!
Mia, you're such a freak!
MlA/
Yeah, l am, but you know what?
Someday
I might grow out of that...
but you wiII never
stop being a jerk.
[Chanting]
Lana got coned!
-Mia!
-ToodIes.
Lana got coned!
Mrs. Gupta,
did you see what she did to me?
Oh, no, honey, I'm sorry.
I was in
a very important meeting.
Send it out for dry cIeaning.
KlDS/ Lana got coned!
CLARlSSE/ lt's a present
for your sixteenth birthday...
from your father.
It was found
among his possessions.
My birthday's not for two weeks.
CLARlSSE/ l know...
but I wanted you to have it
before we Ieave.
I return to Genovia
the day after tomorrow.
Thank you.
It's Iocked.
If you open the Iocket
I gave you...
it becomes the key.
Thank you
for bringing it down here.
CLARlSSE/ l also
came to apologize...
for the way l spoke to you
about the beach incident.
It was judgementaI of me.
I didn't pause
to verify the facts.
That's aII right, Grandma.
I've been thinking about it
a great deaI...
and the truth is...
I think you'd make
a very fine princess.
You know, people think...
princesses are supposed
to wear tiaras...
marry the prince,
always look pretty...
and live happily ever after...
but it's so much more
than that.
It's a reaI job.
You are an extraordinary person,
Grandma...
but I don't think
I'm meant to do this.
I wouId be so afraid...
that I wouId disappoint
the peopIe of Genovia...
and I couIdn't bear...
to disappoint you again.
WeII, as I said...
I have faith in you.
-I'm a writer.
-Ah!
I write soaps--
soap opera.
Mm-hmm.
Did you ever see
''MiddIe House Road''?
No. No, no.
It's a big hit.
I wrote a character
just Iike you once.
He was a spy.
I'm not a spy.
That's what
the character said.
MlA/
l'll see you tonight, then.
CLARlSSE/ Mm-hmm.
Hahh!
CLARISSE:
I do have one favor to ask.
I need you to formaIIy
renounce your titIe...
for the press
at the baII, you know?
-Make a speech?
-Mm-hmm.
Do you think that maybe...
considering
my history with the press...
it wouId be better
if you did it?
AmeIia, you wouIdn't
stop driving your Mustang...
just because a coupIe of insects
hit the windshieId?
Besides,
Iook how far you've come...
and l'll be
right there with you.
l'll have Joseph
pick you up at 7 /00.
No. Um...
I promised
I'd Iet my mom drive me.
She wants to drive me
to my first baII...
or something.
AII right.
I'II see you there, then.
Mm-hmm.
Grandma?
[CIarisse sighs]
I am sorry.
Oh, my dear.
You are first and foremost
my granddaughter.
Ah!
CLARlSSE/
Please don't be late.
Hold on,
but don't hold too tight
Let go and soon
it'll be all right
Don't run away
from what your heart is sayin'
No
Be strong and face
what you're afraid of
Come on, show 'em
what you're made of
l know it's hard
when your hope is gone
But you gotta
keep holdin' on
Hold on
You're gonna make it
You gotta be strong now
Thank you, Dad,
but I can't be a princess.
I don't make speeches...
and I'm not
CIarisse RenaIdi and...
and l just...
l can't do it, OK?
l'm scared.
CHARLO TTE/ Joseph.
CharIotte, Miss Kawa.
Nice to meet you.
Pardon me.
I have to get the band ready.
Of course.
ShouId you be going
to get Princess Mia?
Mia toId CIarisse her mother
wouId be bringing her.
HeIen just arrived and said
Mia was waiting for you.
She's going to run.
MlA/ Come on, Fat Louie.
Time to pack.
Let's get your things.
[Purring]
Louie, what have you
got there?
Come on, Louie.
We're going on a trip.
We're going to CoIorado...
where we can cIimb
some reaI rocks.
We are so out of here, Louie.
''My dearest daughter...
''today is
your sixteenth birthday.
''Congratulations.
''l present you
with this diary...
''to fill the pages with
your special thoughts--
''special thoughts
of your wonderful life. ''
PHlLLlPE'S VOlCE/
''lt is a custom in my family...
''to pass on a piece of wisdom
when one reaches this age.
''l pass it on to you as
my father passed it on to me.
''Amelia, courage is not
the absence of fear...
''but rather the judgement...
''that something else
is more important than fear.
''The brave
may not live forever...
''but the cautious
do not live at all.
''From now on,
you'll be traveling the road...
''between
who you think you are...
''and who you can be.
''The key is to allow yourself
to make the journey.
''l also want you to know...
''l loved your mother
very much...
''and still think of her often.
''Happy birthday, my Mia.
''All my love, your father. ''
NELSON/ And there's
Countess Puck of Austria...
as the glamorous
continue to arrive...
at the Genovian
lndependence Ball.
Despite the threat of rain...
the big turnout includes
the mayor of San Francisco...
and a Genovian pear juggler.
The future of Genovia...
is in the hands of
young Mia Thermopolis.
Her decision tonight will
affect the queen, the court...
and all the people of
this small but proud country.
[Thunder]
Do you think
it's gonna rain on us?
It never comes down
on WiIIie Brown.
Ha ha! Thank you.
UmbreIIas up!
[Thunder]
CHARLO TTE/ And that's enough
pear juggling.
The trip is off, Louie.
[Meow]
[Thunder]
Oh! Perfect.
Unh!
Oh, come on.
Come on, baby.
LORD JEROME/
Genovians, you know...
are famous for
their impeccable taste in art.
AIso for their cheese.
Maybe it's string cheese.
Don't do this, baby.
Unh!
[Engine starts]
Gotcha!
Oh!
MlA/ Sorry, Mr. Robutusen!
Here you go.
It's aIready paid for.
I didn't order a pizza.
I'm sorry about that.
No, you must've.
UnIess there's another
MichaeI Moscovitz Iiving here.
We get a caII, we deIiver.
That's our motto.
You don't make the pizza?
No, no. I just deIiver 'em.
[Sighs]
Press passes.
Thank you. Thank you.
Oh, hi.
Where are you from?
''Teen Scene'' magazine.
Oh, good, good.
MAN/
The queen has entered.
[Repeating in
different Ianguages]
Do we have any news on
the Von Troken matter?
It'II be decided tonight, ma'am.
I'm afraid so.
Where is she?!
She went somewhere!
I know nothing!
Nothing? Come here.
Oh, what? What?
TaIk to me.
She went that way,
then that way.
Two minutes ago.
Thank you very much.
Do we have any probIems?
No. Everything's perfect.
Perfect. It's wonderfuI.
You're not very good
at Iying, CharIotte.
No, I'm not, Your Majesty.
But the garden Iooks beautifuI.
Thank you.
[Engine racing]
Come on, baby.
You can make it.
Yes, come on! Yes!
No. Come on, baby.
Baby, pIease, come on.
[Engine staIIs]
[Ignition sputtering]
CHARLO TTE/ There's no answer
at Princess Mia's house...
and I couIdn't get Joseph
on the ceII phone.
There's too much static
from the storm.
The press is starting
to compIain...
about making their deadIines.
[Sighs]
If she's not here in 10 minutes,
I'II make the announcement.
CHARLO TTE/ Yes, ma'am.
It's OK. She'II be fine.
She's gonna get here.
Is this punishment
for driving without...
a Iicensed driver
in the front seat?!
[Thunder]
I am invisibIe and I am wet.
The press was wondering
if it wouId be possibIe--
No. No interviews untiI
Iater in the evening.
Yes, ma'am.
SUKl/ And we're meeting
Baroness and Baron Von Troken.
Is it true if the teenager
refuses the princess-ship...
your famiIy wiII take over
the country of Genovia?
Yes. They must have
a Iegitimate...
RenaIdi bIood reIative
or we ruIe.
No, ma'am.
[Sighs] Then it's time.
[Mia crying]
Catch a falling star
And put it in your pocket
Never let it fade away
[Sobs]
[''WiIIiam TeII Overture'' pIays]
[Honk honk]
You wouIdn't happen to be
running away, wouId you?
What? Dressed Iike this?
No. I'm going to a baII.
Good. Get in.
MO TAZ/
Her Majesty, the Queen.
CLARlSSE/ My fellow Genovians
and honored guests...
good evening.
l apologize for the delay
and--oh, hello--
And may l say...
welcome to our grand Genovian
lndependence Day ball.
CHARLO TTE/
There's no time to change.
You look fine.
JOE: Pretty and fine.
Just fine.
-Oh!
-No running.
-PIease, no running. Good.
-It's nice.
...a very special moment.
Thank you so much
for your patience.
I have an announcement
to make.
-My granddaughter--
-Ahem.
-She's here!
-I see.
I wouId Iike to announce that
my granddaughter has arrived.
With a fascinating expIanation
as to her wardrobe, I'm sure.
She's styIing a wet,
sort of grunge-Iook hairdo...
and is wearing a sweatshirt,
jeans, and Docs.
Mia, wouId you care
to say a few words?
Um, yes.
Why didn't we dress Iike her?
We Iook Iike idiots.
Thank you, Your Majesty.
Do you think they're trying
to save money on the gown?
Hi--er, uh, heIIo.
I'm Mia. Um...
It stopped raining.
Get your tiara ready.
[ChuckIes]
I'm reaIIy no good
at speechmaking.
NormaIIy I get so nervous
that I faint...
or run away or sometimes
I even get sick.
[Murmuring]
But you reaIIy
didn't need to know that.
But I'm not so afraid
anymore.
My father heIped me.
EarIier this evening,
I had every intention...
of giving up my cIaim
to the throne...
and my mother heIped me
by teIIing me that it was OK...
and by supporting me Iike
she has for my entire Iife.
But...
then I wondered how I'd feeI...
after abdicating my roIe
as Princess of Genovia.
WouId I feeI reIieved
or wouId I feeI sad?
And then I reaIized...
how many stupid times a day
I use the word ''I.''
ln fact,
probably all l ever do...
is think about myseIf.
And how Iame is that...
when there are 7 biIIion
other peopIe on the pIanet--
Ahem.
Ooh. Sorry.
I'm going too fast.
But then l thought...
if I cared about
the other 7 biIIion out there...
instead of just me...
that's probabIy
a much better use of my time.
See, if l were
Princess of Genovia...
then my thoughts...
and the thoughts of peopIe
smarter than me...
would be much better heard
and just maybe...
those thoughts couId be
turned into actions.
So this morning
when I woke up...
I was Mia ThermopoIis.
But now...
I choose to be forevermore...
AmeIia Mignonette
ThermopoIis RenaIdi...
Princess of Genovia.
[AppIause]
I hope you didn't order
your stationery yet.
This was my very first tiara.
I was rather fond of it.
I'm hoping you wiII be, too.
Oh. Grandma,
but you had it aIready.
How did you know
I'd even be here?
Because I recognize
the same spirit in you...
as someone eIse I know.
Who?
Me.
Ah, you made it.
You bet your Iife,
you big, taII string bean.
Here. PaoIo here
to save the day.
Genovia
The land l call my home
Genovia, Genovia
Forever will your banner wave
Her Majesty,
Queen Clarisse...
and Her RoyaI Highness,
AmeIia, Princess of Genovia.
[AppIause]
I think perhaps we'd better
get you dried off now.
[GiggIes] Thank you.
No Ionger does Mia stand for
''Missing In Action.''
Genovia has a new princess.
[Orchestra pIays]
They had the same idea I had...
but now the garden
is ''occupado.''
[Laughs]
Why me?
Because you saw me
when I was invisibIe.
And just because I'm royaI...
doesn't mean
I'm any different.
Come on,
I'm reaIIy the same person.
Yes, I wiII have
to Iive in Genovia...
but I'II stiII go
to schooI and...
[CIick]
You showed me faith
is not gone
l don't need wind
to help me fly
Miracles happen
once in a while
When you believe
You showed me dreams
come to life
That taking a chance
on us was right
All things will come
with a little time
When you believe
MlA/ Dear diary...
today is my first official day
as Princess of Genovia.
We'll land in a few hours...
and l'll meet the parliament
and the people...
before beginning
my royal duties.
Mom is, of course,
moving to Genovia with me...
and will continue painting--
without the balloons.
Lilly and Michael are spending
their summer vacation...
at our--
can you believe it--palace.
They're even having
my Mustang brought over...
which l can legally drive
in two weeks.
Grandma's so glad
to be going home.
And Joseph? Well,
he's watching nearby as usual.
Everybody's got
pre-coronation jitters...
including me.
Everybody, that is,
ex cept Fat Louie.
He's totally adapted
to being a royal.
l guess he was one all along.
JOSEPH/ Princess,
look out the window...
and welcome to Genovia.
Miracles happen
once in a while
When you believe
You showed me
dreams come to life
That taking a chance
on us was right
All things will come
with a little time
When you believe
[New song begins]
l know sometimes you feel
Like you don't fit in
And this world doesn't know
What you have within
When l look at you
l see something rare
A rose
that can go anywhere
And there's no one l know
that can compare
What makes you different
Makes you beautiful
What's there inside you
Shines through to me
ln your eyes l see
All the love l'll ever need
All l need of love
What makes you different
Makes you beautiful to me
So beautiful
What makes you
What makes you different
Makes you beautiful
To me
Everything you do
is beautiful
Love is shining
right through me
Everything in you
is beautiful
Beautiful
To me
Ooh
Mm-mmm
Mm-hmm
[New song begins]
l know that
you're searching for answers
Afraid that
you'll be left behind
But you can't rush time
You got to wait in line
ln time,
the answers you'll find
You'll get your wings
at the right time
Each of us
must learn how to fly
Gotta move on from
what's breaking your heart
Don't let your life
pass you by
[New music begins]
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org